Story two of Lucy Maud Montgomery,
Short stories 1896 to 1901.
This is a librivox recording.
All Librivox recordings
are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer,
please visit librivox.org.
Recording by Darcia Douglas.
Lucy Maud Montgomery Short stories
1896 to 1901 by Lucy Maud Montgomery.
A Christmas inspiration.
Well, I really think Santa Claus
has been very good to us all,
said Jean Lawrence.
Pulling the pins out of her heavy
coil of Fair hair and letting
it ripple over her shoulders.
So do I, said Nelly Preston,
as well as she could with
a mouthful of chocolates.
Those blessed home folks of mine
seemed to have divine by instinct
the very things I most wanted.
It was the desk of Christmas Eve and
they were all in Jean Lawrence's
room at #16 Chestnut Terrace.
#16 was a boarding house and boarding
houses are not proverbially cheerful
places in which to spend Christmas,
but jeans room at least was a pleasant spot,
and all the girls had brought their
Christmas presents in to show each other.
Christmas came on Sunday that year and
the Saturday evening Mail at Chestnut
Terrace had been an exciting one.
Jean had lighted the pink globed lamp on
her table and the mellow light fell over.
Mary faces as the girls
chatted about their gifts.
On the table was a big white box heaped
with roses that betokened a bit of
Christmas extravagance on somebody's part.
Jean's brother had sent
them to her from Montreal,
and all the girls were enjoying
them in common.
#16 Chestnut Terrace was
overrun with girls generally,
but just now only five were left.
All the others had gone home for Christmas,
but these five could not go and
were bent on making the best of it.
Bell and Olive Reynolds,
who were sitting on the bed gene,
could never keep them off of it,
were high school girls.
They were said to be always laughing
and even the fact that they could
not go home for Christmas because
a young brother had measles
did not dampen their spirits.
Beth Hamilton,
who was hovering over the
roses and Nellie Peterson,
who was eating candy where art
students and their homes were too far
away to visit as Forgien Lawrence.
She was an orphan and had no home of her own.
She worked on the staff of one of
the Big city newspapers and the other
girls were a little in awe of her cleverness,
but her nature was a chummy one and
her room was a favorite rendezvous.
Everybody liked Frank Openhanded
and hearted Jean.
He was so funny to see the
postman when he came this evening.
Said all if he just bulged with parcels
they were sticking out in every direction.
We all got our share of them, said Jean.
With a sigh of contentment.
Even the cut got six,
I counted.
Miss Ellen didn't get a thing,
not even letters said Beth quickly.
Beth had a trick of seeing things
that the other girls didn't.
I forgot Miss Allen. No, I don't believe
she did answer gene thoughtfully
as she twisted up her pretty hair.
How dismal it must be to be so forlorn.
As that on Christmas Eve of all times hook,
I'm so glad I have friends.
I saw Miss Allen watching us as we
opened our parcels and letters.
Beth went on.
I happened to look up once in such an
expressionist was on her face girls,
it was pathetic and sad and
envious all at once.
It really made me feel bad for five
minutes she concluded on aslee.
Hasn't Miss Allen any friends at all?
Ask Beth.
No, I don't think she has answered Jean.
She has lived here for 14 years,
so Mrs Pickel says think of that
girls 14 years at Chestnut Terrace.
Is it any wonder that she's
thin and dried up and snappy?
Nobody ever comes to see her and
she never goes anywhere, said Beth.
Dear me,
she must feel lonely now when everyone
else is being remembered by their friends.
I can't forget her face tonight.
It actually haunts me.
Girls,
how would you feel if you hadn't
anyone belonging to you and if nobody
thought about you at Christmas?
Ow said Olive,
as if the mere idea made her shiver.
A little silence followed to tell the truth.
None of them liked Miss Allen.
They knew that she did not like them either,
but considered them frivolous and pert
and complained when they meet a racket.
The skeleton at the feast, Jean Coulter,
and certainly the presence of the pale,
silent,
discontented looking woman at #16 table,
did not tend to heighten its festivity.
Presently,
Gene said with a dramatic flourish.
Girls, I have an inspiration,
a Christmas inspiration.
What is it?
Cried four voices just this let us
give Miss Allen at Christmas surprise,
she's not received a single present
and I'm sure she feels lonely.
Just think how we would feel
if we were in her place.
That is true, said Olive thoughtfully.
Do you know, girls?
This evening I went to a room with
a message from Miss Pickerell,
and I do believe she'd been crying.
Her room looked dreadfully barren.
Cheerless, too. I think she's very poor.
What are we to do, gene?
Let us each give her something nice.
We can put the things just outside
of her door so that she'll see
them whenever she opens it.
I'll give her some of Fred's roses too,
and I'll write a Christmas.
He letter in my very best style
to go with them,
said gene warming up to her
ideas as she talked.
The other girls caught her spirit and
entered into the plan with enthusiasm.
Splendid cried, Beth gene.
It's an inspiration.
Sure enough,
haven't we been horribly selfish?
Thinking of nothing but our own
gifts and fun and pleasure?
I really feel ashamed.
Let us do up the thing.
The very best way we can, said Nelly,
for getting even her beloved chocolates.
In her eagerness, the shops are open.
Yet let us go Uptown and invest.
5 minutes later, 5 Captain jacketed
figures were scurrying up the street
in the frosty starlet December dusk.
Miss Allen and her cold little
room heard their gay voices inside.
She was crying by herself in the dark.
It was Christmas for everybody but her,
she thought drearily
in an hour.
The girls came back with their purchases.
Now let's hold a Council of war,
said Gene jubilantly.
I hadn't the faintest idea what
Miss Allen would like,
so I just guessed wildly.
I got her a lace handkerchief
and a big bottle of perfume and a
painted photograph frame and I'll
stick my own photo in it for fun.
That was all I really could afford.
Christmas purchases have left
my purse dreadfully lean.
I got her a glove box and a
pin trace said Bell and all.
I've got her a calendar and whittier's poems,
and besides,
we're going to give her half
of that big plummy fruit cake
mother sent us from home.
I'm sure she hasn't tasted
anything so delicious for years.
For fruit cakes,
don't grow on chestnut terrace and she
never goes anywhere else for a meal.
Beth had bought a pretty cup and
saucer and said she meant to give
one of her pretty watercolors too.
Nelly, true to her reputation,
had invested in a big box
of chocolate creams,
a gorgeously striped candy cane,
a bag of oranges,
and a brilliant lamp shade of rose
colored crepe paper to top off with,
it makes such a lot of show for the money,
she explained. I am bankrupt like Gene.
Wow, we've got a lot of pretty things,
said Gene in a tone of satisfaction.
Now we must do them up nicely.
Will you wrapped them in tissue, paper,
girls and tie them with baby ribbon?
Here's a box of it.
While I write that letter.
While the others chatted over their parcels,
Jean wrote her letter and Jean
could write delightful letters.
She had a decided talent in that
respect and her correspondence
all declared her letters to be
things of beauty and joy forever.
She put her best into Miss
Allen's Christmas letter.
Since then,
she's written many bright and clever things,
but I do not believe she's ever in
her life wrote anything more genuinely
original and delightful than that letter.
Besides,
it breathed the very spirit of Christmas and
all the girls declared that it was splendid.
You must all sign it now,
said Gene,
and I'll put it in one
of those big envelopes.
And Nelly,
won't you write her name on it in fancy
letters which Nelly preceded to do,
and furthermore embellished the
envelope by a border of chubby cherubs
dancing hand in hand around it,
and a sketch of #16 chestnut terrace
in the corner in lieu of a stamp.
Not content with this,
she haunted out a huge sheet of
drawing paper and drew upon it and
original pen and ink design after
her own heart, a dude ish cat.
Miss Allen was fond of the number 16 cat.
If she could be said to be fond
of anything was portrayed seated
on a rock are arrayed in smoking
jacket and cap with a cigar waved,
airily aloft in one paw while
the other held out
of placard bearing the legend.
Merry Christmas.
A second cat in full street costume
bound politely hat in paw and waved a
banner inscribed with Happy New Year.
While faintly suggested,
kittens gambled around the border,
the girls laughed until they cried over
it and voted it to be the best thing
Nelly had yet done in original work.
All this had taken time
and it was past 11 o'clock.
Miss Allen had cried herself
to sleep long ago,
and everybody else in Chestnut
Terrace was a bed.
When five figures cautiously crept down,
the hall, headed by Gene with a dim
lamp outside of Miss Allen's door,
the procession halted and the girl silently
arranged their gifts on the floor.
That's done Whisper gene in a tone
of satisfaction as they tipped
back and now let us go to bed or
Miss Pickerell bless her heart
will be down on us for burning so
much midnight oil oil has gone up,
you know girls.
It was in the early morning that
Miss Allen opened her door,
but early as it was another door
down the hall was half open,
two and five rosy faces were
peering cautiously out.
The girls had been up for an hour
for fear they would miss the site
and were all in Nellie's room,
which commanded a view of Miss Allen's door.
That lady's face was a study,
amazement, incredulity,
wonder chased each other over.
It succeeded by a glow of pleasure
on the floor.
Before her was a snug little pyramid of
parcels topped by jeans letter on a chair.
Behind it was a bowl of delicious
hothouse roses and nellies placard.
Miss Allen looked down the hall
but saw nothing for Gene and
slammed the door just in time.
Half an hour later,
when they were going down to breakfast,
Miss Allen came along down the hall
with outstretched hands to meet them.
She had been crying again,
but I think her tears were
happy ones and she was smiling.
Now a cluster of jeans.
Roses were pinned on her breast.
Oh girls girl, she said,
with a tremble in her voice
I can never thank you enough.
It was so kind and sweet of you.
You don't know how much good you've done me.
Breakfast was an unusually cheerful
affair at #16 that morning.
There was no skeleton at the feast,
and everybody was beaming.
Miss Allen laughed and talked
like a girl herself.
Oh, how surprised I was.
She said the roses were a bit like summer,
and those cats of Nellie's
were so funny and delightful.
And your letter to Jean I
cried and laughed over it.
I shall read it every day for a year.
After breakfast,
everyone went to Christmas service.
The girls went Uptown to the church.
They attended.
The city was very beautiful in
the morning sunshine there had
been a white frost in the night
and the tree lined avenues and
public squares seemed like
glimpses of fairy land.
How lovely the world is, said Jean.
It really is the very happiest
Christmas morning I've ever known,
declared Nellie.
I never felt so really Christmassy
in my inmost soul before.
I suppose said Beth thoughtfully that
it is because we've discovered for
ourselves the old truth that it's
more blessed to give than to receive.
I've always known it in a way,
but I never realized it before.
Blessing on genes Christmas inspiration,
said Nelly, but girls let us try to make
it in all the year round inspiration.
I say we can bring a little bit of
our own sunshine into Miss Allen's
life as long as we live with her.
Amen to that, said Jean Hartley.
Oh listen girls, the Christmas chimes.
And all over the beautiful city was wafted,
the grand old message of peace on
Earth and goodwill to all the world.
End of Christmas inspiration recording
by Darcia Douglas, Richland, WA.